[Commercial]: In honor of the veterans who have served our country, both past and present, First National Bank, a Franklin family community bank, proudly sponsors Veterans of the Valley.
[Commercial]: Since 1862, First National has provided local decision making and accessibility, as well as banking products and services to Brazos Valley citizens.
[Music.]
[Kyle Netterville]: Thanks for joining us on another edition of Veterans of the Valley.
[Kyle Netterville]: Today we're going to be doing something a bit different from our standard program.
[Kyle Netterville]: We will be talking about Project HOLD.
[Kyle Netterville]: Project HOLD is the City of College Station's historic online library database.
[Kyle Netterville]: They are archiving the history of College Station and the surrounding areas for everyone to access and enjoy at hold.cstx.gov.
[Kyle Netterville]: With us today is Anne Boykin, Project Coordinator for Project Hold.
[Kyle Netterville]: Anne, thank you for being with us.
[Anne Boykin]: Thank you, Kyle, and thanks to Tom for letting us come in here.
[Kyle Netterville]: Give us a little bit of background on Project Hold.
[Anne Boykin]: It started just a few years ago when we had done a series of oral histories and people decided that what are we going to do with it now?
[Anne Boykin]: Where do we put it?
[Anne Boykin]: And the city did not have the facilities or the funding to have a museum.
[Anne Boykin]: So we already were using software to archive our just standard documents within the city.
[Anne Boykin]: So we're using that to put our documents online.
[Kyle Netterville]: So you just decided to make it digital and give it access to everyone, which is a great idea.
[Kyle Netterville]: And even though we're more or less focusing on veterans and military type applications, Project Hold is far more reaching than that.
[Kyle Netterville]: It covers the broad spectrum of everything that's going on in our area.
[Anne Boykin]: Everything.
[Anne Boykin]: If you have a laundry ticket from 1934 or 1968, it might be interesting to us.
[Anne Boykin]: We're open to anything and everything that documents our daily life, especially.
[Kyle Netterville]: Right.
[Kyle Netterville]: You were kind enough to give us a pretty good broad spectrum of pictures that we're going to look at here.
[Kyle Netterville]: And a lot of these pictures, some of our viewers have already seen because those veterans have been on the show, but they're such good pictures.
[Kyle Netterville]: We want to kind of reshow them again and let them see exactly what they're missing and what they can find out by just going to your website.
[Anne Boykin]: Absolutely.
[Kyle Netterville]: So let's go ahead and get to the pictures if we could.
[Anne Boykin]: Great.
[Kyle Netterville]: Tell us what this picture is about.
[Kyle Netterville]: And obviously a lot of people should maybe be able to recognize this area.
[Anne Boykin]: This is a parade, downtown Bryan.
[Anne Boykin]: I'm sure you recognize a few of the buildings there on Main Street.
[Anne Boykin]: And they were doing parades and kind of promotions to hopefully get more volunteers to go across World War I.
[Kyle Netterville]: And I think we talked about this earlier from the perspective of where this picture was taken.
[Kyle Netterville]: Maybe this person would write about where the Palace Theater is now.
[Anne Boykin]: I think so.
[Kyle Netterville]: Looking back towards that intersection right there.
[Anne Boykin]: Right.
[Kyle Netterville]: So this is probably Main Street and I can't remember what that cross street is.
[Anne Boykin]: 26th?
[Kyle Netterville]: Yeah, I think it might be 26th Street.
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah, it's around 1914.
[Kyle Netterville]: Oh, okay.
[Anne Boykin]: And this is another one of the gatherings.
[Anne Boykin]: This is a tank from World War I. Everybody's standing appropriately far back from it.
[Anne Boykin]: And the peak...
[Anne Boykin]: Peaked building in the right of your screen.
[Kyle Netterville]: Down the lower right.
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah, lower right is the Aston building.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay, so that should give everyone a perspective of where they were at there in downtown Bryan.
[Anne Boykin]: It doesn't look like a paved street to me.
[Kyle Netterville]: It still looks like it's pretty much compressed dirt right now.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay, let's move on.
[Kyle Netterville]: Tell us who this is.
[Anne Boykin]: This young man we don't have a name for.
[Anne Boykin]: We'd like to have a name for him.
[Anne Boykin]: If you recognize the photograph, it was just one that was in a group of photographs that we scAnned in, and we don't turn anything away, but I thought it was interesting, just his uniform and that they were living in tents.
[Anne Boykin]: I believe this is maybe North Africa.
[Kyle Netterville]: If anything, it also gives a shot for the young people who watch the show.
[Kyle Netterville]: This is how pictures kind of looked back in the days.
[Kyle Netterville]: They would put the little borders on them and dress them up a little bit.
[Kyle Netterville]: But like Anne said, if anyone knows where this picture came from or who this gentleman is, feel free to contact Anne.
[Kyle Netterville]: I'm sure they'd like to put a name to a face.
[Anne Boykin]: This is an honorable discharge for Luke Patronella from
[Anne Boykin]: the army after World War I, and I believe it's 1918.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay.
[Kyle Netterville]: And if we go to the next document or the next picture, there's a little bit of a story between these two pictures.
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah, he served in World War I, and here he's listed on this listing of gentlemen who served in World War II who did not make it back, and Luke Petronella died during World War II.
[Kyle Netterville]: So he made it through WWI.
[Anne Boykin]: Right, and there are a number of
[Anne Boykin]: names that are familiar around this area.
[Anne Boykin]: Carraba was one, and I'm going to forget some of them already.
[Anne Boykin]: But this was in a book that was given to us, and it documents veterans from Brazos County, Aggie veterans, and African American veterans, which is a rare thing for us to have.
[Kyle Netterville]: Right.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay.
[Kyle Netterville]: Speaking of?
[Anne Boykin]: Yes, and this one is Mr. Thomas.
[Anne Boykin]: He's from Bryan, also served in World War II.
[Kyle Netterville]: Do you know if his family is still here in the area?
[Anne Boykin]: I believe they are.
[Anne Boykin]: And this, that was Thomas Calhoun.
[Anne Boykin]: This young man is Fred Burrell.
[Anne Boykin]: And he's also from Bryan and served in World War II.
[Anne Boykin]: This gentleman was fairly well decorated.
[Kyle Netterville]: And you would love to have some more history from the African-American.
[Anne Boykin]: Oh, yeah, I'd love to have more information.
[Anne Boykin]: This came from that yearbook that I was talking about.
[Kyle Netterville]: Right, right.
[Anne Boykin]: This gentleman is Alphonse Hartle, sitting there in the Jeep with the
[Anne Boykin]: camera, earlier had taken some pictures of these German children, and it was interesting.
[Anne Boykin]: Most of the soldiers, once they got to Germany, were able to buy cameras and start taking photographs.
[Anne Boykin]: His son lives here, and they gave us this photograph.
[Kyle Netterville]: That's a great picture of the German children sitting in the back of the American Jeep.
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah.
[Anne Boykin]: This is Joe Bruce's group.
[Anne Boykin]: They were...
[Anne Boykin]: I believe when they were in Germany or flying over Germany, they were hit and they had to jump out.
[Anne Boykin]: It was a one and only jump, he said, and ended up in a German POW camp.
[Kyle Netterville]: And he's the one kneeling in front, I believe, second from the right?
[Anne Boykin]: Yes.
[Kyle Netterville]: Something like that?
[Anne Boykin]: And he was a navigator, I believe, on this plane and he's living here today.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay.
[Anne Boykin]: This is my dad.
[Anne Boykin]: He's been on the show.
[Kyle Netterville]: That's a striking gentleman, isn't he?
[Anne Boykin]: I put this in for fun.
[Anne Boykin]: Occasionally they got leave and they got to do something fun and he went on leave to Scotland.
[Kyle Netterville]: Not your standard army apparel.
[Anne Boykin]: Not exactly.
[Anne Boykin]: But we thought he looked cute.
[Kyle Netterville]: Every time I see this picture, I'm reminded of the old great movie Brigadoon.
[Kyle Netterville]: Yes.
[Kyle Netterville]: I've got to go rent that tonight just because I see somebody in a kilt.
[Kyle Netterville]: Or for all you Braveheart fans.
[Anne Boykin]: Cal Boykin, he was the A14th Tank Destroyer Battalion in the 7th Armored Division.
[Kyle Netterville]: That is a great, great picture.
[Anne Boykin]: This is a sad little picture.
[Anne Boykin]: This is a German child with a surrender flag.
[Anne Boykin]: This was given to us by Bill Adams, and I believe he was the gentleman who took the photograph.
[Kyle Netterville]: That picture just speaks volumes.
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah, it does.
[Kyle Netterville]: It really does with just the little girl there and the white flag and the look on her face. If the people at home can see the look on this little girl's face, it really...
[Anne Boykin]: Anticipation and fear and happiness and everything all rolled into one.
[Kyle Netterville]: You can see in her face that there's a thousand different emotions going through her little mind right now. Exactly.
[Kyle Netterville]: or when that picture was taken.
[Kyle Netterville]: And explain this to us.
[Anne Boykin]: This is one of our more interesting pieces of memorabilia that we photographed in the office.
[Anne Boykin]: Marguerite Anthony, who lives here, brought this to us.
[Anne Boykin]: Her father was in the CIC, the Counterintelligence Corps, that was in Germany right at the beginning of the occupation.
[Anne Boykin]: And this is a piece of the toilet from Hitler's private bath at Eagles Nest.
[Anne Boykin]: And just one of your more unusual pieces of memorabilia that you don't see very often and we thought it'd be interesting to show.
[Kyle Netterville]: And just that piece of memorabilia is actually here in the Brazos Valley.
[Anne Boykin]: Absolutely.
[Anne Boykin]: Her father, Bernie McClurkin, took quite a few photographs when they first entered Dachau.
[Anne Boykin]: And this is one of the ovens.
[Kyle Netterville]: Right.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay, next.
[Kyle Netterville]: This is a great picture.
[Anne Boykin]: This is Kyle's favorite.
[Kyle Netterville]: Yes, it is.
[Anne Boykin]: This is the Normandy invasion map.
[Anne Boykin]: This was loaned to us from Dr. Betloff.
[Anne Boykin]: It was in his book recently.
[Anne Boykin]: And that basically shows all the movements, true movements and the landing points.
[Kyle Netterville]: Right.
[Anne Boykin]: This is another one of Bernie McClurkin's photographs entering Dachau.
[Kyle Netterville]: That had to be a strange feeling for those Army guys to go into that place for the first time, not knowing what was there.
[Anne Boykin]: Very much so.
[Anne Boykin]: And McClurkin was instrumental in gathering information that brought a lot of the Nazi war criminals to trial.
[Anne Boykin]: The SS and the Gestapo.
[Kyle Netterville]: This is another great picture just because of the depth of field in it, just to let people know the perspective of where they were at.
[Kyle Netterville]: And you're looking way down into a valley.
[Anne Boykin]: Way down into Oberammergau.
[Anne Boykin]: And these gentlemen, Bernie McClurkin is also in this photograph.
[Anne Boykin]: They're on their way walking up to Eagle's Nest.
[Kyle Netterville]: And out of the three gentlemen, he's the one on the far left.
[Anne Boykin]: Right.
[Kyle Netterville]: Right.
[Anne Boykin]: This is Lieutenant Colonel Rudder, who is, I believe this was taken just immediately after the Normandy invasion and surrounded by his troops and looks like they're kind of relaxing somewhat.
[Kyle Netterville]: So we think possibly this was once they had ascended to the top of those cliffs?
[Anne Boykin]: Yes, yes, they're kind of gathering and collecting themselves, I would imagine.
[Kyle Netterville]: And that is, I guess back then he was Colonel Rudder and that's... Lieutenant Colonel, yes.
[Kyle Netterville]: Lieutenant Colonel, where he circled his head there.
[Anne Boykin]: Rudder's Rangers.
[Anne Boykin]: This is another photograph with Bernie McClurkin.
[Anne Boykin]: They are walking up to the top of Eagle's Nest and they're being escorted by the gentleman in the center, an African-American who was Hitler's elevator operator.
[Kyle Netterville]: Wow.
[Anne Boykin]: Very unusual photograph.
[Kyle Netterville]: But we don't know any of the names of these individuals.
[Anne Boykin]: No.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay.
[Anne Boykin]: The Kozlovskys are an interesting couple.
[Anne Boykin]: They both served in the military and met towards the end of the war, I believe.
[Kyle Netterville]: And they've been on the show before.
[Anne Boykin]: They've been on the show.
[Anne Boykin]: And she was a nurse.
[Anne Boykin]: He was a pilot.
[Anne Boykin]: And she's in this, it's almost like a mash.
[Anne Boykin]: I don't think they had mash in World War II, but she's the nurse in the background of this surgical operation.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay.
[Anne Boykin]: And she's in the foreground here with her back to us, offloading a patient from one of the planes.
[Anne Boykin]: And she's here in this group of Russian soldiers.
[Anne Boykin]: This is taken close to the Alp River.
[Kyle Netterville]: That's her in between the two Russians.
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah.
[Anne Boykin]: Very interesting photograph.
[Kyle Netterville]: That's a great picture.
[Anne Boykin]: And this is her now husband Kozlowski shaving.
[Anne Boykin]: I always think daily pictures, you know, how do they manage, you know, what do they do?
[Anne Boykin]: Just shaving and getting dressed for the day.
[Kyle Netterville]: Do we know if, had they already met, like when this picture was taken, had he already met her?
[Anne Boykin]: I think they met briefly at a dance early on.
[Anne Boykin]: They never saw each other until at the end of the war where they got back together.
[Anne Boykin]: I believe that's the story.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay, but that's him basically getting his morning shave the best he can.
[Anne Boykin]: Right, and here he is in the cockpit of C, I'm going to forget it, 21?
[Anne Boykin]: C-47.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay.
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah.
[Anne Boykin]: Giving the Aggie thumbs up there.
[Anne Boykin]: These are two local girls, Ms.
[Anne Boykin]: Landis and Ms.
[Anne Boykin]: Dowell.
[Anne Boykin]: They are mailing V-mail to Carol Landis' dad.
[Anne Boykin]: This is in front of the post office there at Northgate.
[Kyle Netterville]: And the post office is still there.
[Kyle Netterville]: So if you look real close, you can see the windows and make out the building.
[Kyle Netterville]: That's the post office that's over at Northgate.
[Anne Boykin]: This is a little bit of the home front.
[Anne Boykin]: And here is Carl Landis.
[Anne Boykin]: He's in front of his house on Dexter.
[Anne Boykin]: And he and his wife have both passed away in the last couple of years.
[Kyle Netterville]: Is that house on Dexter?
[Kyle Netterville]: Is it still there?
[Anne Boykin]: Oh, yeah, still there.
[Anne Boykin]: She was my third grade teacher.
[Anne Boykin]: And this is a Christmas card from the Pentagon.
[Anne Boykin]: I believe this is around maybe 43 or so.
[Anne Boykin]: It was just an interesting wartime Christmas card with kind of a contradiction in terms there.
[Kyle Netterville]: Merry Christmas from the Pentagon.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay.
[Anne Boykin]: This is a V-mail.
[Anne Boykin]: A lot of people haven't seen a V-mail before.
[Anne Boykin]: They were, letters were handwritten on special paper and then they photographed it, reduced it, folded it up and carried it over, you know, on planes so that it didn't take up so much space and it didn't weigh so much.
[Kyle Netterville]: Right.
[Anne Boykin]: But it's kind of an interesting concept.
[Kyle Netterville]: This is probably the first digital, they were thinking of emails.
[Anne Boykin]: That's right.
[Kyle Netterville]: When they did this pretty much.
[Anne Boykin]: The precursor of email.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay, so that's what a standard V-mail looked like back then.
[Anne Boykin]: V was for victory.
[Kyle Netterville]: Exactly.
[Kyle Netterville]: Who's this gentleman?
[Anne Boykin]: Emilio Salazar, and he was working here on campus in the MSC and also at Cebisa, and he left to join the service, came back and went back to work at the MSC in Cebisa.
[Kyle Netterville]: So did his duty and came back.
[Kyle Netterville]: And I believe you said this was at Camp Bullis.
[Anne Boykin]: Yes, in San Antonio.
[Anne Boykin]: And this was given to us by his daughter.
[Anne Boykin]: She gave us quite a few pieces of memorabilia from their family, Dorothy Hernandez.
[Kyle Netterville]: And is the rest of the family still here?
[Anne Boykin]: Yes.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay.
[Anne Boykin]: These are the ration books where you had to use ration stamps and some money to buy for things.
[Anne Boykin]: A lot of people have the impression that a stamp, and you turn in a stamp and you got the item, but you also had to pay a little bit of money for it, you know, sugar, coffee,
[Anne Boykin]: Butter, gasoline.
[Kyle Netterville]: A lot of the younger generations have never seen this type of thing.
[Kyle Netterville]: Exactly.
[Kyle Netterville]: All they're used to is their Master Card or Visa.
[Anne Boykin]: That's right.
[Kyle Netterville]: Or their Aggie Bucks, if it were.
[Anne Boykin]: And this is our local veterans group in World War II.
[Anne Boykin]: We don't have identification for the
[Anne Boykin]: gentlemen, but.
[Kyle Netterville]: Which is another good reason if someone out there.
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah, if you recognize someone or anyone in the photograph.
[Anne Boykin]: Right.
[Kyle Netterville]: If it was your neighbor, if it was your uncle, your brother, please give Anne a call and let them know that the third guy from the right was my Uncle Billy or whoever it may be.
[Anne Boykin]: Absolutely.
[Kyle Netterville]: We need to put some names to faces.
[Anne Boykin]: This is Katherine Parker, she's from Bryan, and she was out at Avenger Field studying to be a wasp and training, and I don't know any more about her story.
[Anne Boykin]: I would love to have more information about her story, but the son of the commander of Avenger Field gave us a yearbook with a lot of the wasp information.
[Anne Boykin]: We were talking the other day about the mascot for the wasp was the Fifi Nella, which was a cartoon character wasp that was drawn by Disney for the wasp.
[Kyle Netterville]: It was actually created by Walt Disney himself for that purpose.
[Kyle Netterville]: And I guess that was his way of making his contribution, more or less.
[Anne Boykin]: And this is an Avenger flying over, and you're going to know this better than I am, Kyle.
[Kyle Netterville]: It's over the Majuro Islands, the Kwajalein Atoll, which is out in the South Pacific.
[Kyle Netterville]: which is where I was at for about two and a half, three years, working for Armed Forces Radio and Television.
[Kyle Netterville]: Majorelle's great, thousands of islands out there, and that does bring back a lot of memories.
[Anne Boykin]: And I'm always amazed when I look at this at how small that plane is, and this is what the WASP were training to fly.
[Anne Boykin]: And this is a group of Civil Air Patrol out at Coulter Field here, and the, I don't know if you can see it, the hangar in the background is still out there at,
[Kyle Netterville]: Up there at the top right looks like maybe the top of a Quonset hut.
[Anne Boykin]: Yes, that's what I used to call it.
[Kyle Netterville]: Do we have names for these?
[Anne Boykin]: I don't.
[Anne Boykin]: No names for these either.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay, ladies and gentlemen out there.
[Anne Boykin]: Your work is cut out for you.
[Kyle Netterville]: We have lots of names to put to those faces.
[Anne Boykin]: This is the first Aggie muster on Anzio.
[Kyle Netterville]: On Anzio.
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah.
[Anne Boykin]: I believe it was 1943.
[Kyle Netterville]: I think so.
[Kyle Netterville]: Do we know where this picture originated from or who donated it?
[Anne Boykin]: No, I do not.
[Kyle Netterville]: Same thing, no way to put names to the faces or anything like that?
[Anne Boykin]: A&M may have something in their archives that would identify them.
[Kyle Netterville]: That's a great picture also, especially if we could find the names to those faces.
[Anne Boykin]: This is an interesting photo.
[Anne Boykin]: This is Floyd Gravett.
[Anne Boykin]: His sister, JoAnnea Yeager, lives here, and she gave us an opportunity to scan in her whole scrapbook on her three brothers who all served.
[Anne Boykin]: Two were killed in action, and this brother, Floyd, was a Japanese prisoner of war for a number of years.
[Anne Boykin]: They didn't even know if he was...
[Anne Boykin]: alive for about three years.
[Kyle Netterville]: And I was commenting earlier that it looks like a pretty nice bunk there, a nice wooden floor.
[Kyle Netterville]: It looks clean.
[Kyle Netterville]: He looks pretty healthy.
[Kyle Netterville]: But this was obviously at the beginning of his interment.
[Anne Boykin]: The very beginning of his interment.
[Anne Boykin]: And he was moved around.
[Anne Boykin]: So the conditions, I would imagine, got worse.
[Anne Boykin]: And he was, I have seen a photograph of him when he came home.
[Anne Boykin]: Very thin, very undernourished, but he survived.
[Kyle Netterville]: But from looking at this pic, you would think, gee, prisoner of wars don't have it that bad, but they really did.
[Anne Boykin]: Right.
[Anne Boykin]: These are the type of letters that his family would get occasionally that were written by the Imperial Japanese Army.
[Kyle Netterville]: And you can see that at the top.
[Kyle Netterville]: I don't know what you would do if you were at home and you got a telegram from the
[Kyle Netterville]: Imperial Japanese Army.
[Anne Boykin]: Right.
[Anne Boykin]: And what they were writing, you knew, was contrived.
[Anne Boykin]: It wasn't necessarily a normal letter from your son at war.
[Kyle Netterville]: You can just tell by the verbiage.
[Anne Boykin]: Right.
[Anne Boykin]: Would not have been his language.
[Kyle Netterville]: Right.
[Anne Boykin]: Western Union telegram.
[Anne Boykin]: Telegrams went back and forth, and my uncle used to send telegrams all the time to my grandmother, and she would nearly have a heart attack because Western Union was, you know, if you got a Western Union, then something wrong had happened, something bad had happened.
[Anne Boykin]: But it was the major, quickest way of communicating.
[Kyle Netterville]: Right.
[Anne Boykin]: This is James L. Boone, Jr., who's still living here in College Station.
[Anne Boykin]: He is, in this photograph there, on the road to Baggio in the Philippines, Luzon.
[Kyle Netterville]: Which one is he in this picture?
[Anne Boykin]: He is in the middle.
[Kyle Netterville]: He's the one, I think, with his leg crossed there, leaning up against the jeep or whatever that is.
[Anne Boykin]: And this was a very narrow road and a very, very steep cliff.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay.
[Kyle Netterville]: Now we've jumped, obviously, now we're in color, so this is more or less along the Vietnam era.
[Anne Boykin]: Right.
[Anne Boykin]: This is at the end of the Vietnam War, and this is Bill Bratty and his group.
[Anne Boykin]: Bill Bratty is the red-haired one on the kind of back left.
[Anne Boykin]: He was class of 71 here at A&M.
[Anne Boykin]: He also attended consolidated schools.
[Anne Boykin]: He was a Cobra trainer at that time.
[Anne Boykin]: and this is Bill again in Alaska years later.
[Anne Boykin]: I would say post-Vietnam.
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah, quite a bit.
[Anne Boykin]: Things had changed considerably.
[Anne Boykin]: His group helped form the unit that rescued the hostages in Tehran.
[Kyle Netterville]: Oh, okay.
[Kyle Netterville]: But obviously, this is a totally different setting.
[Kyle Netterville]: He was doing some other flying.
[Anne Boykin]: And this is Russ Harvell, who's the back row, second from the right.
[Kyle Netterville]: He's the one holding the grenade launcher for you other guys at home.
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah, that recognize that.
[Anne Boykin]: That recognize that.
[Anne Boykin]: And this is in Vietnam.
[Anne Boykin]: He's with his patrol there.
[Anne Boykin]: Russ volunteered in, I believe, 67 to go to Vietnam.
[Kyle Netterville]: And his whereabouts now, is he deceased?
[Kyle Netterville]: Is he around?
[Anne Boykin]: No, he lives here in Bryan.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay, so he's here.
[Kyle Netterville]: He's alive and kicking.
[Anne Boykin]: The Harvell family has quite a few.
[Anne Boykin]: There are members that live here in College Station in Bryan.
[Anne Boykin]: This is one of my favorite pictures.
[Anne Boykin]: This is General Woody B. Kyle, the Kyle Field family.
[Kyle Netterville]: Who was that lanky guy to his left?
[Anne Boykin]: That's what caught my eye.
[Anne Boykin]: John Wayne was filming the Green Berets in Hue, Vietnam, and that's where Kyle was.
[Kyle Netterville]: So this would have been early 60s, mid-early 60s, maybe, something like that?
[Anne Boykin]: Yes, yes.
[Anne Boykin]: But I thought it was interesting because John Wayne was the major military supporter.
[Kyle Netterville]: Yes, he was.
[Anne Boykin]: I would have expected him to take this picture and be there right with the guys.
[Kyle Netterville]: Right.
[Kyle Netterville]: That's another great picture.
[Anne Boykin]: And this is the grandson of Will and the late Kitty Whirly, Andrew Garza.
[Anne Boykin]: He is in Baghdad in one of the palaces.
[Kyle Netterville]: I believe that's one of Saddam's palaces, one of his many palaces that they took over.
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah, this young man served 15 months.
[Anne Boykin]: He's in a computer group and he came home in December and just left recently to go back for another 15 months.
[Kyle Netterville]: Oh, so he's back on tour again.
[Anne Boykin]: He's back on tour.
[Anne Boykin]: And this is a small group.
[Anne Boykin]: This is a sniper group.
[Anne Boykin]: The young man on the second from the right.
[Kyle Netterville]: With the stripes on his face.
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah, Sergeant Mark Michelle is our adoptive platoon soldier.
[Anne Boykin]: His mother and I have been in school since first grade together, and his grandfather was our family doctor, Dr. O.C.
[Anne Boykin]: Cooper.
[Anne Boykin]: So we adopted this group.
[Kyle Netterville]: I believe that's Tom's doctor.
[Anne Boykin]: Yes, J.F.
[Anne Boykin]: Cooper is Tom, I think, yes.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay.
[Anne Boykin]: team of brothers.
[Anne Boykin]: Very prominent family here in College Station and Bryan.
[Anne Boykin]: But Sergeant Mark Michelle has been stationed in Iraq for 15 months and we adopted them about a year ago, October.
[Anne Boykin]: And he is going to be presented, has been presented with a presentation at City Council last week.
[Anne Boykin]: So anyway, he's a really neat young man.
[Anne Boykin]: and we expect to see a whole lot more of him.
[Anne Boykin]: He'll be in the service, I think, another year and a half, and they're stationed in Alaska now.
[Anne Boykin]: And this is his group again.
[Anne Boykin]: He's in the front row left, the 509th Infantry.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay.
[Kyle Netterville]: It's a nice group picture.
[Anne Boykin]: Yes.
[Kyle Netterville]: And I take it, and obviously if you're a sniper, you'll know this, but obviously there's something about wearing the sunglasses.
[Anne Boykin]: It all has to do with the sunglasses.
[Kyle Netterville]: Who is that behind those Ray-Bans?
[Anne Boykin]: Yeah.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay.
[Kyle Netterville]: Those are some really great pictures.
[Kyle Netterville]: Thank you for bringing those.
[Anne Boykin]: Oh, you're welcome.
[Anne Boykin]: I enjoy sharing them with people.
[Kyle Netterville]: So what other things, obviously we just focused on this, but like I said earlier, Project Hold,
[Kyle Netterville]: covers a really, really broad gambit of everything.
[Anne Boykin]: Oh, absolutely.
[Kyle Netterville]: Do you have anything else we can talk about?
[Anne Boykin]: Last summer, we focused on the 60s, and we have an exhibit that's going to come down soon at the conference center.
[Anne Boykin]: But we scanned in a lot of photographs from that era, and it doesn't seem like that long ago, but it was 40 years ago.
[Kyle Netterville]: Oh, right.
[Anne Boykin]: it's scary but it was my class but um we have just a wide variety we have a lot of infrastructure uh city of College Station
construction photos when city hall was being built the groundbreaking for that and um anything and everything right arts and culture yeah
[Kyle Netterville]: uh what would someone need to do if they've found an old box up in the attic or something that their their granddad passed away and they're
and they're looking through all this stuff, and my gosh, it's a shame that they're just gonna hopefully not just get rid of it.
[Anne Boykin]: If they plan to get rid of it, no matter what they do, let me see it first, I wAnnea go through it first, and we can scan things in and give it back to them.
[Kyle Netterville]: Right, now you don't keep the originals, just let everyone know that.
[Anne Boykin]: We don't keep the originals, they can have them back.
[Anne Boykin]: And we're also encouraging people to, especially if they have military veterans, to participate in the Veterans History Project through the Library of Congress.
[Kyle Netterville]: Right.
[Anne Boykin]: And they will accept originals and things like that.
[Anne Boykin]: But we can talk to them about that.
[Anne Boykin]: But we also have just ways of documenting their family's history.
[Anne Boykin]: And then every member of their family can be online and see the same things.
[Anne Boykin]: They can share it with them.
[Kyle Netterville]: Okay.
[Kyle Netterville]: Annie, what about contact information?
[Anne Boykin]: You can contact me at City Hall, 764-3491, and also on our website.
[Kyle Netterville]: There's the website address.
[Anne Boykin]: H-O-L-D dot C-S-T-X dot gov.
[Anne Boykin]: And come by and see me at City Hall.
[Anne Boykin]: I love to visit with people.
[Kyle Netterville]: She'll push all the pictures aside.
[Anne Boykin]: I do.
[Anne Boykin]: All the stacks go to the side, and we just sit and visit.
[Kyle Netterville]: We've only got a few minutes left.
[Kyle Netterville]: Any last words?
[Anne Boykin]: There is a Vietnam Veterans Convention that's going to be at the Hilton February 2nd, and you can contact me if you want more information about that.
[Anne Boykin]: We're encouraging the Vietnam veterans to participate so that we can document their stories as well.
[Kyle Netterville]: Absolutely.
[Kyle Netterville]: Anne, thank you for being here.
[Anne Boykin]: Thank you.
[Kyle Netterville]: It's been a great show.
[Kyle Netterville]: I'm sure everyone got a lot of good information, saw a lot of great old pictures.
[Anne Boykin]: Good.
[Kyle Netterville]: It just keeps, it's great.
[Anne Boykin]: Well, we'll do it again sometime.
[Kyle Netterville]: Absolutely.
[Kyle Netterville]: Next stack of pictures, we'll scan them in and do it again.
[Anne Boykin]: Great.
[Anne Boykin]: Thank you.
[Kyle Netterville]: Thank you for being with us.
[Kyle Netterville]: You know, back in 1986, the city of College Station had the foresight to establish the Historic Preservation Committee, or the HPC.
[Kyle Netterville]: The HBC sponsors the Exploring History Lunch Lecture Series on the third Wednesdays of the month, and this popular and informative series is held from 1130 a.m.
[Kyle Netterville]: to 1 p.m.
[Kyle Netterville]: at the College Station Conference Center, which is located at 1300 George Bush Drive, and the luncheon is only a mere $5 per person.
[Kyle Netterville]: For more information, you can contact Anne Boykin at aboykin at cstx.gov or give Anne a call at 979-764-3491.
[Kyle Netterville]: I'm sure she'd be glad to give you all the information you need.
[Kyle Netterville]: For all of us here at KAMU, the production crew, and Tom Turbyville, I'm Kyle Netterville saying so long for now until the next roll call for Veterans of the Valley.
[Music.]
[Commercial]: In honor of the veterans who have served our country, both past and present, First National Bank, a Franklin family community bank, proudly sponsors Veterans of the Valley.
[Commercial]: Since 1862, First National has provided local decision making and accessibility, as well as banking products and services to Brazos Valley citizens.
[Silence.]
[Static.]